The next will discuss a little bit of the detail and how the DHCP protocol Works to dynamically assign IP addresses
So
the problem we're solving is
how do we get an IP address when we don't have one
So how would a host get one
So it could be hard-coated by a system
administrator their ways to do this
So you can manually set the IP of your computer in Windows eunuchs
and other operating systems
However
that's pretty brutal
If you put in the wrong value of things change
So
what's commonly used is called DHCP
which word dynamically find an IP address from a server
So the goal of the DHCP protocol is to allow the host to dynamically find an IP address from the network server when it joins the network
So we could renew this
When a lease expires
so essentially a time to live with how long that address is valid
You could then reuse
addresses support for mobile users
who want to join the network and then leave perhaps
So basically we're going to walk through how DHCP works
This is just a brief overview of it
The hosts could broadcast i d h c p v
c p server would respond with an offer message the hosted request
an IP address and the DHCP server would respond with an acknowledgement
So let's look at this kind of scenario
Let's suppose we have a network setup in this way
We have a few subnet setup
There's a DHCP server connected in one of the subnets and we have a laptop
joining the network and now it needs an IP address so that it can communicate with the local network as well as Beyonce on the internet
So the DHCP server
as he arrived in client gets connected
It realizes
it doesn't have an IP address
So it sends out a broadcast
Is there in a DHCP server available
It would have included some information within that discovery about what it may think
This Source address would be
So the source address of 0000
This would effectively be a broadcast type of address
likewise that destination address of 255, repeated is indicating a broadcast
So the DHCP server would receive that
It would interpreted and say
okay
I'm a DHCP server and it would send a message back and coated with its IP back to everyone
So I can I broadcast cuz it doesn't know how to address that client
because
that client doesn't have an IP address
So then the arrival client would say
okay
I'll take an IP address it again
does this through broadcast because it still doesn't have an IP address assigned yet
Then the DHCP server would respond back with an acknowledgement
Okay
you've got that particular IP address
And now it would have assigned an IP address
but this would have come through this broadcast from the DHCP server because they arrived in client up
Until this particular point in this time flow
didn't have an IP address assigned
So did she pee can do a bit more than just a signing IP addresses
It can return more than just that allocated address on the subnet
I typically would provide a Gateway names and addresses of a DNS server
as well as with the network mask would be so indicating the network versus the host portions of the IP address
So
let's look at another DHCP example
So let's suppose we connect this laptop at needs an IP address of the first top router
And often times up
Rogers said
your home network would have a DHCP server built in
So it would build up this request
It wouldn't capsule8
This say
starting a DHCP realize when you TP
so it would be that transport layer message than an encapsulated into an IP message using the broadcast address
Then sent down on the link layer is an Ethernet
If it's physically plugged in that ethernet frame would get broadcasted to everyone on the land sort of like how in the our protocol worked
This should get received by this router running the DHCP server
I would then get Dakota to its DHCP information
So that beatboxing process would strip off all that header
Information until it gets down to the relevant
DHCP information
The Deep the DHCP server within formulate
an acknowledgement containing the clients IP address
the IP address of the first top
Router
the note itself
the name and IP address of the DNS server
So then encapsulate that back down to the link layer
of course
and send it over to the MAC address corresponding to that particular note
So
the client would now I know it's IP address and the name and address of the DNS server as well as the first top Gateway
router IP address
Let's just look at a little bit of a log recorded from Wireshark
When a Homeland for this process
So
this would be the request from the client in
This would be the reply from the DNS server from the DHCP server
So initially the request
as we can see
maybe a little bit small
but the client IP address is
just assigned is all zeros
And but we do see the MAC address and coded for the client there
Right
So then the reply from the DHCP server would have the IP address and coated in it
Writes for the IP that's been assigned
The gateway address and some of these other components
like
DNS servers
that we've also discussed
So this is my sending out this broadcast information
getting this reply from a DHCP server
On the network
This is how this new no joining
The network would have been assigned
Its IP address